WSO2 Identity Server is an API-driven open source IAM product designed to help you build effective CIAM solutions. It is based on open standards such as SAML, OAuth and OIDC with the deployment options of on-premise, cloud, and hybrid. It supports complex IAM requirements given its high extensibility.

Within these pages you will find tutorials that help you understand and try out capabilities such as SSO, Identity Federation, Authentication - be it multi-factor authentication or adaptive authentication, and more. You can also browse through our vast API options available.

Achieving exceptional digital experiences can be challenging, whether for employees, consumers, business customers, or partners. IAM is fundamental, and you need a flexible, extensible IAM solution to realize your vision. WSO2 offers the open source IAM solution you require.

WSO2 Identity Server (WSO2 IS) simplifies the Customer Identity and Access Management (CIAM) needs of your organization. The product ensures easy integration with a variety of applications to facilitate single sign-on (SSO), social login, identity federation, API security, strong authentication, account management, privacy compliance, and so much more.

Who uses WSO2 Identity Server?¶
Application developers who build extensive IAM solutions for organizations.

Administrators or Team leaders looking for an easy but secure way to onboard and manage users.

Data Protection Officers who need to implement and monitor a system that adheres to privacy protection regulations across the organization

Insight managers who need precise data on logins, registrations, and user activities to derive business insights.

Why WSO2 Identity Server?

Unify sign-ins - WSO2 IS facilitates single sign-on (SSO) that eliminates the need to maintain multiple credentials for each application making life easier for your users.

Give the right access to the right people - Control access to applications based on permission levels of users or groups.

Enforce strong authentication - WSO2 Identity Server offers multi-factor capabilities such as Email OTP, SMS OTP, Security Key/Biometrics (FIDO) etc. It also enables adaptive authentication which means you can define the level of authentication based on user device, location, and usage context.

Empower users to manage their own accounts - Enable self-registration to applications and let users view, and manage their own profiles.

Manage users and their accounts - Take control of the entire identity lifecycle management of your organization. Provision users to or from trusted identity providers and integrate heterogeneous userstores such as LDAP, Active Directory, and JDBC.

Secure ever-growing APIs - WSO2 Identity Server plays a key role as the authorization server that supports several OAuth related standards or profiles. It supports open standards such as OAuth, OpenID Connect, SAML 2.0, and XACML. It also enables high availability, failover, and performance for a smooth operation.

To safeguard user data and give them control over it - WSO2 Identity Server enables recording, reviewing, and revoking user consents by adhering to privacy by design principles and industry standards imposed by GDPR and similar privacy laws such as CCPA and LGDP.
